---
tag: ttrpg/live-session
date: 20240602
system: [[Dungeon Crawl Classics]]
players: 
 - CO
 - SO
 - NJ
 - JJ
 - MJ
---

up:: [[Sessions MOC]]

# The Hole in the Sky, Session 2

## Overview 📜

The party dealt with the predatory birds, found **The Hole in the Sky**, entered the otherworld, ventured to the tower, discovered the titan and cage, climbed to the top of the tower, got a clue for how to get everyone up to the cage a bit more safely than trying to descend through the ceiling light holes, and descended back down the tower to the ground.

- ☠️ **Fatalities:** NJ's Mercenary, CO's Pete Pickle, MJ's Dwarf
- 🪦 **Previous Fatalities:** One of CO's characters

# Detailed Recap

We had a new player join us today (NJ)! That introduced four new characters. I recapped all of the pertinent information to catch NJ up on what everyone was doing and why, as well as reminded all of the other players, as it has been some time since we last played.

Tabletop Simulator, unfortunately, didn't keep the same state we'd ended with on Session 1, so we had to restart the combat with the [[Sea Shrikes]] on the invisible bridge.

Though hanging out on the couch with the Steam Deck connected to the TV with a wireless keyboard and mouse felt much more spacious, comfortable, and fun!

## Catching Up NJ

To keep things fair, NJ's characters had to make the same Luck checks and (on failure) Reflex saves that everyone else made last session. These checks were to not be blown off the bridge by the terrible winds of the second day's storm! Two failed their luck checks, but both managed to grab onto the ledge of the invisible bridge and be hoisted up by the others.

## The Sea Shrikes 🦅

Perhaps giving the players an option to hold/ready their attacks when the [[Sea Shrikes]] entered melee wasn't what the module intended. Level 0 funnels are supposed to be brutal! NJ's **mercenary** character was **the only fatality by the birds**. All of the other birds were slain in about two rounds.

## The End of the Bridge 🌉

The party proceeded forth to the end of the bridge where they were led to the believe the portal would appear. **Pete Pickle**, one of CO's characters, tried to see if the portal was there by jumping off the end of the bridge. **He fell a half-mile to the ocean below to his death**.

The rest waited and finally ascertained that it was nearly about a full moon. They had to wait for 2 days before it was _both_ a full moon **AND** the moon aligned with the edge of the bridge. The porthole to the otherworld opened and they all proceeded through.

## The Otherworld ✨

They stepped through into a world of magenta skies and oddly shaped, too-thin bamboo. Eventually, one of the characters realized that they weren't actually bamboo, but giant blades of grass. Ahead, the 240-foot tall thorny tower, seed-like structure peeked out of the heavy mist. They began making their way towards the structure.

The journey took four hours and they triggered no random events (2 rolls on `1d6` where a result of `1` generated a random event).

They reached the tower and were greeted by a pair of 60-foot tall double doors, latched but not locked. They spotted a foot-gap at the bottom of the doors; the halflings and some of the dwarves squeezed under to get a view of the inside.

### Inside the Tower 🗼

A massive, terrifying creature, supposedly the titan, was snoring loudly. The door was obviously created for this creature, who could easily fill its frame. They also spotted strange, glowing brain flies 🧠🪰 the size of grapefruits. These flies, along with several holes in the ceiling, were the only sources of light.

Above the sleeping titan was the wooden cage that supposedly held the prisoner they were sent here to free.

The smallfolk returned back under the door and to the outside otherworld to tell what they saw. They devised a plan.

#### The Plan

MJ's dwarf was going to creep in and wait for the sleeping titan to be awakened by someone knocking on the door while everyone else hid and took their place among the grass forest. They hoped to draw the titan out so that the way into the tower would be clear for them to explore without the risk of the titan killing them all.

JJ's character stood at the door, ready to knock when he reached the agreed-upon count. It didn't last long, however, as seconds into the plan **MJ's dwarf let out a terrified shriek that was immediately cut short. The dwarf never returned.**

They decided to continue with the plan and JJ's character knocked on the door. The titan awoke, opened the door wide enough to shove its head through for a peek, and, not seeing anything interesting to it, closed the door, stomped over to its spot, and began once more to audible snore, even through the great double doors.

A second knock on the door did not seem to stir the creature.

### Climbing the Tower

The smallfolk came up with another idea. They knew they had rope and grappling hooks, and they knew of the holes in the ceiling. Though from the great distance and dim lighting, it was hard to tell just how _big_ the holes were. But they managed to convince the others that it was worth a try. The exterior of the tower was rough, with many spiny appendages, that should make for a relatively easy climb.

And climb, they did! It took a long while, and Snelly Shmead was even unfortunate enough to have the grappling hook tear free of the rope on one of her tosses (thankfully they had a spare!), but eventually, they reached the top!

The holes were tight, and so they sent a halfling through. The halfling was greeted with the top of the massive **alder wood prison**, and even saw a gap in the wall, signifying to them that there must be some hidden access to another part of the tower that they'd missed!

The halfling (one of CO's characters), was too frightened to try to swing over to the cage, for a fall would mean certain death, so he was pulled back up through the hole and to the top of the roof.

The party made it back down to the tower without any issues.

